As has been discussed in the previous sections, we are interested in visualizing
and understanding the difference in performance between predictive and
horizontal auto-scaling for two different pod initialization times and two
different traffic patterns. As such, we have four different tests on which we
compare ERU and QOS: increase-decrease traffic pattern with 5s pod
initialization time, increase-decrese traffic pattern with 135s pod
initialization time, flash-crowd traffic pattern with 5s pod initialization
time, and flash-crowd traffic pattern with 135s pod initialization time. This
grouping of tests can be visualized through the matrix seen in Table
\ref{tab:testmatrix}.

\begin{table}
  \setlength{\extrarowheight}{2pt}
  \begin{tabular}{*{4}{c|}}
    \multicolumn{2}{c}{} & \multicolumn{2}{c}{Pod Initialization Time}\\\cline{3-4}
    \multicolumn{1}{c}{} &  & 5s  & 135s \\\cline{2-4}
    \multirow{2}*{Traffic Pattern}  & increase-decrease & (5s, i-d) & (135s, i-d) \\\cline{2-4}
    & flash-crowd & (5s, f-c) & (135s, f-c) \\\cline{2-4}
  \end{tabular}
  \caption{The Test Matrix}
  \label{tab:testmatrix}
\end{table}

For each test on the matrix, we provide two different sources of information.
First, we generate a graph comparing the summation of eru and qos across the 60
minute evaluation time for predictive and reactive auto-scaling. Additionally,
we provide statistical measurements for the difference of predictive and
reactive auto-scaling at the same point in the evaluation sequence (i.e. we
compare the summation of eru and qos after 10 minutes for predictive with the
summation of eru and qos after 10 minutes for predictive). We process all of the
observations that we recorded in 1 minute intervals, for which we calcualte the
mean eru and qos observations. With respect to statistical measurements, we
calculate a one-sided p-value based on the null hypothesis that difference
between the summation of eru and qos for predictive and reactive auto-scaling is
$0$. As we are interested in seeing if predictive auto-scaling performs better
than reactive auto-scaling, we calculate a one-sided p-value, $p$, with the alternative
hypothesis that the difference between the summation of eru and qos for
predictive and reactive auto-scaling is greater than $0$. We test for
significance at the $5\%$ significance level, meaning that if $p < 0.05$, we can
reject our null hypothesis in favor of our alternative hypothesis that
predictive auto-scaling performs better than reactive auto-scaling.

\subsubsection{5s and increase-decrease}

\input{chapters/evaluation/results/impact-of-predictive-auto-scaling/5s-and-increase-decrease}

\subsubsection{135s and increase-decrease}

\input{chapters/evaluation/results/impact-of-predictive-auto-scaling/135s-and-increase-decrease}

\subsubsection{5s and flash-crowd}

\input{chapters/evaluation/results/impact-of-predictive-auto-scaling/5s-and-flash-crowd}

\subsubsection{135s and flash-crowd}

\input{chapters/evaluation/results/impact-of-predictive-auto-scaling/135s-and-flash-crowd}
